#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{titlesec}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{5}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\setitemize{nolistsep}
\newcommand{\planlist}{\setitemize{nolistsep}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
HuddleLamp - Interim Report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Jose Kalladanthyil
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
“Science fiction writers foresee the inevitable, and although problems and
 catastrophes may be inevitable, solutions are not.” (Isaac Asimov) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing single
For an idea to be envisioned and come to fruition someone has to dream it
 first.
 people that dream the biggest and challenge the boundaries of our imagination
 are science fiction writers and movie makers.
 Various technology advances and human feats were shown, or animated in
 the movies were then made into reality by various companies.
 i.e smartwatches were a popular gadget for various detective movies especially
 James Bond Movies.
 Smartphones was also popular in movies like matrix, and james bond movies.
 Another gadget that was very popular in a lot of mainstream movies was
 an interactive table, like the one in Star Trek.
 Where a lot of people can collaborate and contribute sitting around a table.
 Even though the idea was exciting and intrigued a lot of people, this has
 not been as popular as the other gadgets because of the high production
 cost which lead to even higher retail price of this product.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HuddleLamp is a project to compete with the fact that interactive tables
 are quite expensive, making it is inaccessible for some everyday consumers
 such as schools, public libraries, community centres etc.
 HuddleLamp aim to use the multitude of tablets and smartphones that people
 have lying around unused and create an ad-hoc interactive table by using
 a novel sensing and detection method to deduce where the devices are and
 what they should be shown.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HuddleLamp proposes to use some of the cheaper off-the-shelf products like
 a webcam, and a lamp to create a more cheaper interactive table that anyone
 could use.
 HuddleLamp proposes to use a hybrid sensing approach that uses RGB and
 depth data, that can be obtained from sophisticated webcams, which can
 detect and identify mobile displays on tables and track their positions
 and orientations[1].
 The project devised a way that multiple devices can interact with each
 other in such a way that they all serve as one seamless multi-device user
 interface.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some of the main advantages of HuddleLamp were the face that you seamless,
 ad-hoc way of adding devices to the UI.
 Using HuddleLamp, users can add or remove displays and reconfigure them
 in space without the need of installing any software or attaching markers.
 the setup and pairing of devices is implicitly done by placing them below
 the camera.
 Adding a new device to the “Huddle” is done by opening a URL on the device
 and making it visible to the camera.
 The camera also tracks the hand movements of the user, enabling interactions
 between the devices.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The simplicity in adding a device to the table means users are not constrained
 by having specific devices or requiring them to download particular apps.
 This also means collaboration can occur on tables that are cluttered with
 other objects likes pens and pencils.
 There are 2 main components thats required for HuddleLamp; a camera, they
 suggest Creative Senz3D camera, and a desk lamp, both are relatively inexpensiv
e components compared to an interactive table.
 However there are some deficiencies in this improvisation to make a interactive
 table.
 At the time of writing, the project have not release a public version of
 their software.
 The developers version requires you to connect a computer with the webcam
 which does most of the grunt work in term tracking devices.
 In this architecture of HuddleLamp, this does all the resource intensive
 tasks so if its not a really powerful computer, there are lagging experiences
 by the users.
 The fact that to set this interactive table up you need to connect a lamp
 up to a computer means that the whole setup is not very portable.
 The size of the interactive part of the table is constrained by how high
 up the camera is, from the surface of the table.
 The use of camera means users’ arms and hands can sometimes impede the
 detection and tracking of devices during moving or touching the devices.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For these reasons, I propose to create an app which can communicate and
 collaborate with other mobile devices running the same app nearby.
 I envision using Bluetooth Low energy technology that came to the fore
 over the recent years and the advancement done by Apple in iBeacon technology,
 and creating an indoor positioning algorithm around a table.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This solution can clearly get rid off the camera used by HuddleLamp to make
 the whole system much more portable.
 I want to place 3 iBeacon nodes around the table and use trilateration
 algorithm.
 Its similar to algorithms used in movies for tracking people using the
 phone signals.
 The web architecture implementation would ensure that all the devices would
 have a synchronised data showing ensuring collaboration between the devices.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This idea in turn have several challenges that needs to be overcome.
 The main challenge is the fact that bluetooth technology is not designed
 exact positioning.
 Eventhough the idea is theoretically possible and also there exist libraries
 which helps in this scenario.
 Advanced, sophisticated algorithms needs to be created which can factor
 the error that is prone to show up.
 Bluetooth signal is just a 2.4 GHz radio wave and as such is susceptible
 to factors like absorption, diffraction, interference and multipath propagation.
 Therefore to achieve more than 5-6m accuracy using trilateration, you need
 really advanced noise cancelling algorithms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Over the course of this project I wish to investigate into the posibility
 of using BLE technology for accurate positioning.
 Evaluation using ….
 benchmarks, and creating my own tests to compare with the HuddleLamp implementa
tion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another big challenge that has to be overcome is the lagging experienced
 by the users of the HuddleLamp.
 Some of the main culprits for the lagging in the HuddleLamp project was
 the processing power of the computer used and the delay of transferring
 information through the web sockets.Using the power of cloud computing and
 scalable cloud applications like heroku should ensure that the lagging
 will stay to a minimum.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the big advantage of the hybrid sensing system employed by HuddleLamp
 was the ease to track the mobile devices on the table.
 This is another aspect that I would require to replicate using BLE technology.
 I have decided to overcome this by using the sensors like accelerometer
 and compass on the devices and dead-reckoning.
 Dead reckoning is the process of calculating one's current position by
 using a previously determined position, or fix, and advancing that position
 based upon known or estimated speeds over elapsed time and course.
 [2 - wiki] 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a lot of very important decisions that needs to be taken before
 the implementation of the product.
 there are a wide choice of options for each aspect of product such as positioni
ng, implementation language, benchmarking.
 Over the course of this section we will go through some of the similar
 work done by other research labs.
 Also go through some of the options that needs to be narrowed down, where
 we will see the advantage and disadvantage for the choices and then pick
 the method we will be implementing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Related Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interactive table is by no means a new idea.
 A lot of research has been undertaken to find a simple suitable solution
 for the problem.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
LightSpace 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the companies that does a lot of research into this area is Microsoft.
 One of their research is into a system called LightSpace.
 LightSpace is a small room installation designed to explore a variety of
 interactions and computational strategies related to interactive displays
 and the space that they inhabit [LightSpace].
 This was a research that investigated into touch sensitive interactive
 displays which was built using cameras and projectors to simulate a fully
 virtual 3D environment.
 As you can see from FIGURE ____ LightSpace is not a portable design, aimed
 at turning a whole room into an interactive space.
 It is a more sophisticated implementation with larger set of use cases.
 including picking and dropping virtual object.
 It gives a more augmented reality environment.
 There are other limitation to LightSpace, like it can only emulate interactive
 display features on flat, static shapes that are designated beforehand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Beamatron 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another research undertaken by Microsoft is Steerable displays [beamatron].
 It uses a motorized platform to orient a projector to display graphics
 at any point in the room.
 It is quite similar to the LightSpace research we discussed previously,
 however the Beamatron can project graphics in the user’s hand, and follow
 the user as they move about the room.
 It uses a depth camera to calculate the live changes in the room such as
 following a user’s hand.
 It discuss how we can move 2D graphics using gestures.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Suphace Phone
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
ConnecTable 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ConnecTable is one of the earlier concept for interactive table using multiple
 devices.
 Its a mobile, context aware information appliance which uses a pen-based
 interaction.
 It also has the capability of extending its display area to merge multiple
 connectables together to form one large display.
 There are primary mode of interaction with ConnecTable is the pen based
 method.
 Sensors are also build onto the ConnecTable, allowing the interpretation
 of physical actions in the real world, mapped to an action on the table
 depending on the software used.
 ConnecTable is a roomware component.
 Roomware is a concept where lots of multiple objects in a room could interact
 with each other in a way that they would be able to provide information
 of what is happening in the room.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Radio Frequency Signal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the biggest decision that needs to be taken for our implementation
 is the type of Radio Frequency signal (RF) we are going to use for our
 positioning.
 There are quite a few mainstream RF widely used, such as Wifi, Near Field
 Communication (NFC), Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) also known as
 Bluetooth smart.
 In this section we are going to look at the advantages and the disadvantages
 of these RF signals.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Wifi 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
WiFi is one of the most used RF signals out there.
 it is used for computer networking using 2.4 GHz UHF and 5 GHz SHF ISM radio
 bands.
 The services provided are also numerous, from consulting web pages to watching
 on demand video sequences.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the biggest advantages of Wifi is the fact that its widely used.
 Almost all location has wifi now which means the setup cost and maintenance
 cost of wifi would be cheap.
 It also has the ability to transfer complicated data between its Access
 point (AP) and the mobile devices, making it highly adaptable.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
WiFi has been used for indoor positioning before by various research groups.
 Two positioning techniques have been used for these research called Signal
 Strength Cartography and Wave propagation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Signal Strength Cartography is a reference based system where you map the
 area offline with coordinates and the strength of the wifi signal.
 Then when you are trying to locate a device use the coordinates and the
 strength to work out where exactly the device is.
 There are two main steps for this mapping, an offline mapping step, which
 could be done either by simulation or manually using measurements, and
 an online positioning step, which could be done either using a probabilistic
 method or deterministic method.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Wave propagation approach is a mathematical attempt at finding the distance
 between the device and the transmitter by finding a relation between the
 distance and the signal strength.
 By using at least 3 AP we can use wave propagation and trilateration to
 work out the position of the device.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However there are various disadvantages of using WiFi to work out positioning
 of the devices.
 there are usually only one AP per location, however we would require more
 than one, to get more accurate positioning of the devices.
 WiFi works mainly by sending signals in channels, so having more than one
 WiFi AP in a location could produce congestion in channels which would
 create an interference.
 Wifi also higher power consumption as you can see from FIGURE ____.
 This is because of the larger range in which Wifi sends out its signal.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is hope for using WiFi as the main Radio frequency for our product
 in the future after the Wifi Standards agency brings out Wifi-aware.
 Which is a proximity based discovery system.
 Introduction of this system could mean that you don’t require any extra
 AP, and the devices could interact with each other without any outside
 help.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Global Positioning System (GPS)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
GPS is one of the most widely used feature in our devices.
 Over the past few years the use of GPS has increased significantly due
 to the increasing social network activity.
 Almost every app that we use through our mobile devices request for GPS
 access.
 GPS is a space based navigation system using the satellites.
 It was initially introduced by the Department of Defence of USA using the
 24 satellites already in orbit.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
GPS satellites transmit data continuously which contains their current time
 and position.
 A GPS receiver listens to multiple satellites and solves equations to determine
 the exact position of the receiver and its deviation from true time.
 At a minimum, four satellites must be in view of the receiver in order
 to compute four unknown quantities (three position coordinates and clock
 deviation from satellite time).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main advantage of GPS is that its widely available.
 Almost all devices have a GPS receiver on it.
 It also has a very large range.
 However it is not a viable option for us because of the fact that the signal
 comes from outer space and our devices are usually indoors.
 GPS like any radio frequency signal is prone to absorption and defraction
 by the roof and walls in the building.
 GPS also has a high power consumption.
 GPS tends to be not very accurate, averaging ~10m which would make it unviable
 for our use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Bluetooth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Classic Bluetooth usually known as Bluetooth was the codename for a project
 by Special Interest Group (SIG), a collaboration between some major companies,
 like Ericsson, Intel, Nokia.
 Bluetooth was invented for short range wireless communication with devices.
 Bluetooth uses radio signals in the 2.4 GHz range to transmit data.
 This range is globally license free range, therefore there is no extra
 cost for deployment.
 Bluetooth is not targeted any specific application, therefore a multitude
 of applications has used Bluetooth in various different ways from transferring
 files to streaming songs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SIG is in charge of the specification of Bluetooth and creating a roadmap
 for it going forward.
 To standardise the form of communication through Bluetooth, SIG has defined
 a set of profiles that needs to be made available by the manufacturer.
 Devices usually only have a subset of these profiles enabled.
 Some of these profiles are :
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A2DP Advanced Audio Distribution Profile.
 Used for Streaming audio.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
HFP Hands-Free Profile.
 Used for hands free kit to make calls in cars 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
HID Human Interface Device Profile.
 Provides support for input devices like keyboards, mice and game controllers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bluetooth is aimed at applications that require short range communication
 typically few meters.
 The actual range a application make depends on the Bluetooth Class the
 application has and also external circumstances like absorption, diffraction
 etc.
 Bluetooth deices are separated out into 3 different classes with separate
 transmission power.
 The full picture is shown in Table _____.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="4" columns="4">
<features rotate="0" tabularvalignment="middle">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top">
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Class
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Max Power Output
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Max Range
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Power Level Control
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
100 mW
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
100 m 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Mandatory
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
2
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
2.5 mW
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
10 m
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Optional
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
3
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1 mW
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1 m
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Optional
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset


\begin_inset Float table
placement H
wide false
sideways false
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Caption Standard

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Bluetooth Power class
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Due to the different profiles and more than sufficient range and relatively
 low power consumption, Bluetooth shows considerable potential to be used
 as our Radio frequency signal for our positioning.
 However there some aspects of it which makes it difficult for bluetooth
 to be used.
 The main problem is the security constraints of bluetooth which requires
 the devices to go through a pairing process with each other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Bluetooth technology a device could take either the master role or the
 slave role.
 Before the devices can communicate with each other they have to discover
 each other and specify which profile they are going to use.
 Pairing is done by : 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Master devices continously broadcast “inquiry messages”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
These messages will be picked up by nearby devices that are “discoverable”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
These devices will respond with a message containing their name, profiles
 they support and other technical details.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Using these details the master device can establish a connection with the
 correct profile 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
BLE is a relatively new technology, which came out in 2010 with the new
 specification for Classic Bluetooth 4.0.
 BLE was introduced for devices that are predominantly used for monitoring
 and control, like sensors values and control commands, where there is no
 need for large amount of data transfer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Modes
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the biggest improvement introduced for BLE, that is not there for
 Bluetooth, is the addition of the new mode.
 This new mode takes away the necessity for pairing to exchange data.
 In this “broadcast” mode the device can send data in the advertisement
 channel.
 There are 4 different modes in BLE : 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Central : similar to the Bluetooth master role, can have multiple connections.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Peripheral: a device can only have one active connection with the central
 mode 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Broadcaster : Where you send data in the advertisement chanel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Observer: Where you listen to the advertisement chanel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Scanning
\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another big improvement BLE has brought is the ablity to discover other
 devices in two different modes.
 BLE enabled devices can now passively and actively scan for connectable
 devices.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Passive scanning - a central device listens to the advertising channel passively
 to capture all the packets transmitted by connectable devices 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Active scanning - a central device listen for advertisement packets and
 when it receives the packet, it checks whether the sender is connectable
 through looking at the mode.
 If it is then a scan request packet is send to gain more information.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Devices may advertise as seldom as once every 10 seconds or as fast as every
 20 millisecond.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Range
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Similar to the Classic Bluetooth, the range of BLE is determined by the
 transmitting power and the interference that it might experience.
 BLE has a transmitting power up +10dBm which gives it a range of 300m theoretic
ally.
 However BLE usually use a power of 0dB or less which gives it a range of
 about 50m[link 9].
 As you can see from the table ____, even though BLE is meant to have low-energy
 consumption, it has a bigger range than Classic Bluetooth under maximum
 power.
 This mainly due to the smaller packet.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Positioning algorithms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Ecolocation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ecolocation is a RF based location algorithm.
 It uses the sequence of received signal strength RSS from nearby reference
 nodes with known locations, to find the location of the unknown node.
 By ordering the reference nodes by their distance we are able to map different
 regions of the space to their unique signature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Training
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

phase During the training phase, we divide the area (the table), where the
 device is going to be, into segments.
 We go through these segments and detect the RSS signal from all the reference
 node and store them to a database.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Online
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

phase Online phase is when an unknown device in in the area and we want
 to know its location.
 The device collects the RSSI information from the reference nodes and compares
 it to the stored information in the database, to get best match or get
 geometric median of the K-closest values, to work its location.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Trilateration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Trilateration is one of the oldest and most recognisable method of estimating
 location of an object.
 We use a minimum of three reference nodes and the distance between them
 and the device to work out the position of the device.
 The reference nodes are used as centers of circles and the distance is
 used as the radius of those circles.
 The point of intersection of those three circles is the relative or the
 actual position of the devices depending on whether the location of the
 reference nodes are known.
 In most cases of position systems the reference nodes are beacons or access
 points.
 The distance can be measured using RSS or or time of flight (TOF), time
 taken for the signal to reach the device.
 These measurements combined with the coordinates of the beacons can form
 the basis of trilateration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Signal Based Position
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From previous work done for indoor positioning we know that many different
 signal characteristics could be taken into account to determine the position
 of the device.
 Some of these characteristics are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Angle
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

of
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Arrival
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

(AoA)- Angle of Arrival compares the direction from which the different
 signals arrive at the devices.
 Using the received angle, we can determine it direction from whic the signal
 came from.
 If we have multiple signal coming to the device, we can find the exact
 location of the device by looking at where the lines intersect.
 We need a minimum of two reference points and two angls to work out the
 correct position.
 There are many difficulties with the method, the device would need to know
 its own orientation to work out the correct angle.
 The sensors that detects the signal needs to be very advance (more advanced
 than the ones usually found on a device.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Time
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

of
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Arrival
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

(TOA) - By using the time of arrival of the signal and the time of sending
 of the signal and the medium in which it travelled through we can work
 out the distance of the devices from reference nodes.
 This coupled with a database of known travelling time we can work out where
 the device is.
 This would however mean we would have to keep a database of results and
 wont be very portable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
RSSI
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

-
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Based - Similar to trilateration, the device can use the Recieved Signal
 Strength Indicator (RSSI) to work out distance from the reference nodes.
 Any device with a proper network adapter can work out the RSSI value.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Filter
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Filter based positioning uses mathematical methods to estimate the positioning
 of the device, using some given observations from the system.
 The observation can be anything from distance to references, previous estimated
 position or sensor inputs such as a compass or gyroscope.
 This technique has been used for many different application.
 Its very helpful because it allows us to incorporate many other sources
 of data that we could potentially have for the system.
 A good example of this is presented in [15], where they use ultrasound
 as the radio frequency signal and combine it with odometry reading to get
 a better accuracy for their tracking ability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A particle filter work by continuously generating thousands of particle
 at random during runtime.
 For positioning, these particles represent the location that the device
 could be.
 We can calculate the distance to the reference beacons for each particle.
 By using the observer value from the device we can eliminate and filter
 out those particles that are unlikely to be the correct location.
 We then use the remaining particles to calculate an estimate for the position
 of the device.
 The filtering is done by assigning weights to all the particle depending
 on how reasonable the particle values are according to the observed value.
 Gradually, most of the particles will have negligible weight and therefore
 would not affect the estimation while some particles with significant weights
 will remain affecting the estimated value significantly.
 To avoid this problem we resample the higher weight particles while particles
 with negligent weights are discarded.
 During the initial step we uniformly distribute the particles around the
 map, later particles and discarded or saved depending on the filtering
 method.
 Two of the most commonly used filter methods are Kalman Filter and Mote
 Carlo Filter .
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

{
\backslash
planlist 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="10" columns="3">
<features rotate="0" islongtable="true" longtabularalignment="center">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" width="13text%">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" width="30page%">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" width="15page%">
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Date
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Target
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Fall Back Milestone
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
30- Jan
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish Interim Report,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish research into frameworks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Identify the frameworks to be used
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Learn the frameworks
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
17 - Feb
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Implement the basic bluetooth listening app
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
use the app to get data for evaluation on distance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Start implementing trilateration
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
1- March
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish implement trilateration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Get data by testing it on a grid to get the error in trilateration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Start adding dead reckoning information and start filtering methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
finished background for the full report
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
15- April
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
finish implementing filtering methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
get error rate adjust the filtering method to get it working
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Start implementing the mobile app with a picture and moving on picture to
 get it working
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
finish evaluation of the full report including tables charts and diagrams
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
App that shows a fiteration method ie.
 a rectangle with dots to show the position of the app!
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
30-April
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish evaluation section for the report 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Get background and evaluation checked by tutor
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
15- May
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish moving picture app 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Do other parts of the report
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Moving picture app similar to where is waldo type app
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
30-May
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish the report 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
add gesture control to the app
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
gesture control app
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
15-June
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Be at a stage where report needs to proof read and checked
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish the gesture control
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
final hacking session to get the app presentable
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout
30-June
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Itemize
Everything should be finished
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Potential Extentions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are various extensions I would like to do including:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Finish the gesture controls
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Make it more of a platform so that people can create a workspace they want
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Have some in app workspaces like blank drawing page, casino games
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Have the ability for the picture app to import pics from library
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Evaluation Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As you can see from the background research, a lot of companies and individuals
 have done various research into creating an interactive table.
 A lot of research has also been undertaken in the topic of indoor positioning,
 especially with Bluetooth and BLE.
 Therefore there is a lot of information about bluetooth and Trilateration
 and filtering techniques.
 I will be undertaking a research in the use of bluetooth for positioning
 in a smaller area.
 Where I believe the error in sensing would be much smaller.
 Basic sensing of Bluetooth signalling augmented with odometry data and
 filtering techniques would give me positioning information to a quite a
 good accuracy level.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are are severals ways for me to evaluate the research I have done
 and the accuracy of the techniques I have used.
 As you can see from the progress plan I aim to gather information about
 distance measurements through Bluetooth and compare it to real world, physical
 distance and calculate the error for it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another experiment I would do after that it to work out the error for trilaterat
ion and dead reckoning and create an app which uses a filtration method
 like the Monte Carlo localization filter to gain a confidence level of
 where the device is.
 I would do this by having a large sheet of paper, which would be divided
 into a grid and calculating where the device is.
 All of this data combined should give me an accurate picture of the sensing
 abilities of a device.
 This should in turn help me build an app where I can take these error informati
on into account and create a robust app which should be quite accurate.
 I am aiming to get as close as possible to the sub-centimetre range that
 HuddleLamp was able to achieve with their implementation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another evaluation experiment I would like to try is a way to benchmark
 the loading time.
 How quickly panning and gesture could be passed back to the app.
 It is something I would also evaluate by comparing it to the HuddleLamp
 setup I have in the office.
 Comparison between the implementation for load times might not be the ideal
 scenario since the loading of information in HuddleLamp is subject to the
 computer in which the Visual Studio project is running.
 Different computers can give different result for this experiment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally I would also have an evaluation where I would give some users an
 opportunity to use the app and see how they do.
 Then I would try and do get a questionaire filled to get their feedback.
 I would try and get a wider variety of views including from graphic designers,
 students, lecturers etc.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
